feat(web-wallet): real-MetaMask E2E infrastructure + onboarding journey (#169)
HathorNetwork/hathor-rpc-lib: packages/web-wallet/tests/e2e/e2e.md

   tests impossible. Approve and reject are symmetric and both belong to the spec.
2. **Specs compose the page object and the MetaMask driver directly.** Spell out each
   Snap-backed action in the spec as separate, visible steps — drive the dApp with the page
   object, decide the Snap with the driver, assert with the page object. Keep the dApp action
   and its Snap approval as distinct steps; don't fuse them into one helper.
3. **Network switching is a spec verb, not setup.** The spec drives it explicitly, exactly
   like any other Snap action.
4. **One wallet ⟺ one Playwright project.** Same project = same wallet with accumulated
   state. Different project = a brand-new wallet.
5. **A dependent, ordered chain = one spec file with `test.describe.serial`.** Never split a
   dependent chain across multiple files.
6. **Use the real Unleash — never skip it.** Feature flags are per-network and must resolve
   from the real proxy.
7. **Assert only what the UI actually renders. Verify against the real component code first**
   — never assume a value (e.g. a fee) is displayed.

---

## The layering model

> Four roles. Each has ONE job. Crossing the boundaries is what caused past confusion.

Reviewer: chore: Improve wording
```suggestion
Four roles. Each has ONE job. Crossing the boundaries has caused past confusion.
```

Author: Applied. Thanks.

**create token, send transaction, switch network** (and connect/install during provisioning).

These are **local** (no Snap, no MetaMask step):
- **Register token** — Header menu → "Register Tokens" → paste config string → "Register
  token".
- **Unregister token** — token → `/history/:uid` → "Unregister token" → confirm toggle →
  "Unregister token".

Don't add a `metamask.confirmDialog()` after a local operation — there's no popup to drive.

---

## Headed-run viewing (optional)

For watchable headed runs the suite keeps the **Hathor wallet in the foreground**; MetaMask
tabs are intentionally never brought to front. `E2E_SPLIT_WINDOWS=1` puts the wallet and
MetaMask in two side-by-side OS windows (see `driver/windows.ts`). These are viewing
niceties only; never assert on window geometry.

---

## Pitfalls we actually hit (don't repeat them)

- ❌ Bundling the Snap approval inside a `sendToken`/`createToken` helper → can't write reject
  tests. ✅ Keep the Snap decision in the spec.
- ❌ Filing network-switch under "provisioning/setup" → can't express journeys that switch
  network mid-flow. ✅ It's a spec verb.

> - ❌ Assuming the fee is shown for fee tokens → there's nothing to assert. ✅ Verify the

Reviewer: suggestion: Change the "fee is not shown" concrete case. This is an example of a behavior we most probably will want to change soon. And as soon as we do, this documentation will add confusion instead of clarity.

There are other instances where this "fee is not shown" is written, and could be changed too to avoid confusion.

```suggestion
- ❌ Assuming an information is shown for a given context → it may be deliberately hidden. ✅ Verify the
```

Author: Good point — tying the rule to today's "fee hidden" behavior would rot the moment we change it. Reworded to the version-independent principle ("verify the component; assert only what it renders") and swept the other "fee is not shown" mentions for the same wording. Done.

  on testnet and wait for the flag-gated UI.
- ❌ Splitting a dependent chain across files → order/skip guarantees break. ✅ One serial file.
- ❌ Adding `defaultNetwork` to the wallet config → couples the seed to a network. ✅ The
  journey owns the network.

---

## Selector gotchas (hard-won writing the token-lifecycle journey)

These bit us once each — check for them when a `getByRole`/`getByText` fails:

- **Async-loaded values render a fallback first.** The Receive dialog shows
  `No address available` until the Snap's `htr_getAddress` resolves. Don't read the value the
  instant the dialog opens — wait for the fallback to be replaced
  (`await expect(addr).not.toHaveText(/no address available/i)`), then read.
- **Action buttons duplicate once tokens have balance.** There are two `Send` buttons — the
  primary quick action (first in DOM) and a per-token Send in the asset row. `Unregister
  token` appears twice — the trigger in the history view and the confirm button in the dialog.
  Disambiguate with `.first()` / `.last()` (primary/quick action is first in DOM; a dialog
  mounts on top, so its button is last) or scope to the dialog.

> - **Icon-only buttons have no accessible name.** The dialog X close and the header hamburger

Reviewer: chore: This is actually an accessibility bug we should fix. Another concrete case.

We should keep this here, but just with this clarification that this is a behavior that will probably change soon, and will cause this rule/gotcha/doc obsolete.

Author: Agreed, this is a real a11y bug, not just a test inconvenience. Kept the gotcha (the tests need it today) but flagged it as a workaround for a bug we should fix, so it gets removed once the buttons get accessible names. Opened #176 to track adding the `aria-label`s. Done.

  `<span role="status" aria-live>` for screen readers. Assert with `.first()`.
- **Confirmation toggles are siblings of their label, not children.** In a
  `flex justify-between` row the label text and the toggle button are siblings, so from the
  label go up two levels (`xpath=ancestor::div[2]`) before selecting the button.

## File map

```
tests/e2e/
  e2e.md                       # this file
  wallets.config.json          # named registry of PUBLIC testnet stub seeds (committed)
  playwright.e2e.config.ts     # (repo: packages/web-wallet/) projects + webServer (no SKIP)
  fixtures/metamask-fixture.ts # worker-scoped mmContext / metamask / dappPage / wallet
  helpers/
    webWallet.ts               # page object — MetaMask-blind dApp steps
    journeys.ts                # provisioning (import/onboard → connect → install Snap)
    wallets.ts                 # typed loader for wallets.config.json
  driver/
    MetaMaskDriver.ts          # the Snap side: onboard/import/connect, confirmDialog/rejectDialog
    windows.ts                 # optional two-window split for headed runs
  *.spec.ts                    # one journey per file

> ```

Author: Done — added a `text` language to both directory-tree fences to clear MD040.
